Fighting Styles

Empty Handed

Fighter, Paladin, Ranger

If you wield a weapon in one hand and nothing in the

other and take the attack action (attacking with your

wielded weapon) you can use your bonus action to make a

single attack with your unarmed strike.






Improvised

Fighter, Ranger

You gain proficiency with improvised weapons and their

damage die is always at least 1d6.








Leader

Fighter, Paladin

After initiative is rolled, you can designate an ally that

can see and hear you. The designated ally treats their

initiative result as equal to your own.







Longarm

Fighter, Paladin

If a weapon has both the two-handed and reach properties,

you can reduce the damage die size by one and ignore the

two handed property. For example, the damage die of a

glaive would change from a d10 to a d8.








Low Blows

Fighter, Paladin, Ranger

When you hit a creature with a melee or ranged attack its

speed is reduced by 5 until the end of its next turn.









Practiced Archery

Fighter, Paladin, Ranger

When calculating your ranged attack bonus your

Dexterity score is considered to be 16, whether or not it actually is. If, due to an Ability Score Increase, your

Dexterity becomes 16 or greater, you can choose a new

fighting style.












Run and Gun

Fighter, Ranger

When you use the attack action to make only ranged

attacks you can use your bonus action to take the dash

action. When dashing in this manner your speed only

increases by one half of your normal speed.

Throw Anything

Fighter, Ranger

All melee weapons without the two-handed property gain

the thrown (20/60) property. You can throw weapons with

the versatile property but not while wielding them in two

hands.

Throwery

Fighter, Ranger

You gain a +2 bonus to ranged attack rolls with weapons

that have the thrown property.

















Watchful

Fighter, Ranger

You gain a +1 to attack rolls when attacking creatures

with armor class 16 or higher.

Weapon Master

Fighter, Paladin, Ranger

Choose a single melee weapon. When you roll damage

with the chosen weapon, roll 1d4. You can replace the

result of the weapon’s damage die (replace all dice if

multiple) with the result of the d4.















