Homebrew Compendium

Generalist

Generalists are the jack of all trades amongst wizards.

None of their tools are particularly sharp but they always

have the right one.

GENERALIST

Wizard Level Feature

2nd Outstanding Retention

6th Impromptu Spell

10th Endless Experience

14th Infinite Knowledge

Outstanding Retention

You always push the limits on your spell retention

abilities. Starting at 2nd level you can prepare an

additional wizard spell for every three wizard spells you

can prepare normally.

Impromptu Spell

Beginning at 6th level, you can cast any wizard spell of

6th level or lower that you are high level enough to cast.

You must expend a spell slot of the chosen spell’s level.

Once you use this feature, you must complete a long

rest before you may use it again.

Endless Experience

Starting at 10th level, you can recognize the casting of

any spell you can see being cast. If you would not know

of the spell, you can still determine its effects.

Infinite Knowledge

At 14th level, you no longer need a spellbook to prepare

spells. You can prepare any wizard spell you are high

enough level to cast. If you do not know a spell exists,

you cannot prepare it as part of this feature.






Metamagus

You see no reason a scholarly spellcaster such as yourself

must be barred from the power of metamagic. Spells you

cast are retooled in a more improvised manner and this

works well for you, most of the time.

METAMAGUS

Wizard Level Feature

2nd Metamagic

6th Rapid Preparation

10th Expert Application

14th Residual Magic

Metamagic

At 2nd level, you learn one sorcerer metamagic and can

apply it to any wizard spell you cast as if you had the

sorcerer Metamagic feature (use your Intelligence

modifier in place of Charisma modifier). Additionally,

you gain metamagic points, which you can expend in

place of sorcery points, to apply metamagic effects. You

have a number of sorcery points equal to half of your

wizard level (rounded up) plus half of your Intelligence

modifier (rounded up).

When you reach 6th, 10th, and 14th level, you learn an

additional sorcerer metamagic.

You regain any expended metamagic points when you

complete a long rest.

Rapid Preparation

Beginning at 6th level, when you could prepare an

additional spell, you can expend your bonus action to

page through your spellbook and prepare any spell within.

You can use this feature a number of times equal to

your Intelligence modifier. Once you complete a long

rest, you regain all expended uses of this feature.

Expert Application

At 10th level, the cost of applying metamagic to 1st level

spells is reduced by one. This can reduce the cost to zero.

Residual Magic

Starting at 14th level, immediately after you cast a spell

of 5th level or higher that you applied a metamagic to,

you regain an expended metamagic point.








